learning-another-language: content (#7)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-3: learning-another-language/our-path.md

# Our Path

## Learning Out of Necessity

Jing has been working on a Python project with their team for the last few months. They've had ups and downs, but the project is getting deployed. They feel very proud of their work.

> However, Jing's manager just called them into a meeting. There's a new opportunity and the manager is recommending Jing to join this new team! It's a great opportunity for them. However, there's one huge concern: Jing's new team will build software in JavaScript.

Reviewer: Stay positive, Jing!
```suggestion
Excitingly, Jing's manager just called them into a meeting. There's a new opportunity and the manager is recommending Jing to join this new team! It's a great opportunity for them. However, there's one huge concern: Jing's new team will build software in JavaScript.
```

Jing has never seen JavaScript code before, much less written it!

How can Jing effectively learn another programming language?

How can _we_ most effectively learn another programming language?

## Our Approach

This curriculum will take the following approach to learning JavaScript:

1. Write Hello, World!
1. Write FizzBuzz
1. Summarize what we've learned so far

> 1. Establish resources

Reviewer: resources for what? what kind of resources?
```suggestion
1. Establish trustworthy resources
```

From there, we will make a list of a few major concepts that are unique to JavaScript.

> At the end of these steps, we should have enough knowledge of JavaScript that lets us feel comfortable playing around with the language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the end of these steps, we should have enough knowledge of JavaScript to let us feel comfortable playing around with the language.
```

### Write Hello, World!

Hello, World! is a great exercise to start with because it forces us to learn how to:

- run Javascript code
- write a print statement
- read the output
- debug errors

### Write FizzBuzz

> FizzBuzz will force us how to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FizzBuzz will force us to learn how to:
```

- use variables
- use conditionals
- use equality-checking and comparison
- define functions
- use parameters
- use `return`
- call functions

### Take Notes and Summarize

After jumping into the code and picking up a lot of syntax, we'll need to pause, reflect, and summarize our learning so far.

> ### Establish Resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Establish Trustworthy Resources
```

The next step is deciding which resources are on our side. What does a "good," trustworthy resource look like?

### Collect More Topics to Learn

For our JavaScript curriculum, we'll dive into these topics:

- What's up with semicolons?
- Why do variables look like that?
- What is an object? Where are Python dictionaries?
- Why are there so many different syntaxes to write functions? And how are they different?

### Decide When to Start Solving Problems

One final, but extremely important step to take is deciding when to move past syntax learning.

At some point, it will be more effective to learn JavaScript by encountering problems.

This moment comes before we feel ready. 😅🙂

## Change in Study Style

When learning another programming language, we should allow ourselves to be more exploratory.

> At many times, we will _choose_ to:

Reviewer: "at various times" means sometimes we will do x, sometimes we will do y, which is what I think is intended here.
```suggestion
At various times, we will _choose_ to:
```

- Learn a bit about something, and then move on
- Focus on syntax and muscle memory
- Take notes for things to revisit and learn more about

This requires trust in ourselves!

> In the moment of coding, there may be something we get stuck on, and we need to trust that if we keep pushing, it will come together.

Reviewer: the full stop hear sounds a but more resolute to me
```suggestion
In the moment of coding, there may be something we get stuck on. We need to trust that if we keep pushing, it will come together.
```
